Well, welcome to this month's Ask Your Herb Doctor. My name is Andrew Murray.
My name is Sarah Johanneson-Murray, and I'm delighted to be back on the show joining the incredibly knowledgeable Dr. Peat and my wonderful husband.
Okay, so it's February 21st, 2020.
The second show this decade, as I mentioned last month, it's a new decade,
but we are still able to
entreat Dr. Peat to join us on the show to share his wisdom. Last month,
very briefly, we were discussing
resonant frequencies, the effects on cells of
frequencies, and I came across a lot of very interesting abstracts
done that were actually 19, sorry, 2019 and
2020. So even in the earliest parts of January, there are articles being posted on PubMed,
research articles and abstracts related to
electromagnetic frequency and extremely low frequency electromagnetic frequencies, and
very exciting news because one of the main
studies that caught my eye was a treatment of breast cancer,
where they were showing it was
absolutely effective, and as an adjunctive therapy to
traditional
cancer management in breast cancer, I would just like to say that it was part of a
adjunctive therapy, not the sole therapy as the authors wanted to make sure they pointed out too,
but that it had very significant cell killing effects.
So last month, like I said, that was the beginning of the show, we opened it up and we got quite a few calls in,
so didn't get a chance to get through some of the other very interesting articles on different pathologies that
this post-EMF was being used to treat, and I know in the past
discussions and shows we'd touched a little bit on Rife therapy.
We've definitely mentioned
vaccines, and I know Dr. Peat's latest newsletter on vaccines in context is something else we'll get to
once we get through some of the pathologies related to the abstracts on EMF and its treatment.
And then there are some other questions that I have that are part and parcel of people asking questions and wanting to put them to Dr. Peat.
So it's a live show folks from 7 to
7.30.
We basically interview Dr. Peat, ask him questions and
listen to what he has to say about the mechanisms by which he understands the
activity of certain things that we don't normally see as being relevant or being effective because it's just not the
it's not the way things are sometimes that when the drug comes out is given all these different
treatments, treatment uses and actually turns out to be fairly negative. So
he's got a very different perspective on a lot of things that we would see as just headlines and advertising
and goes certainly into the science of it to show and explain why it's not a good thing. So Dr. Peat, let's
introduce you to the show. You here?
Hi, Dr. Peat. Okay. So as always for people who maybe haven't heard your name or
know anything about you, we'll definitely at the end of the show give out your web details for people to find more about you.
But would you just give an outline of your academic and professional background?
I went from
after graduating from college and getting master's degree in
humanities
and studying
linguistics for several years, I decided to study brain biology for a PhD and
when I got to the University of Oregon, I quickly decided that brain biology was a dogmatic
topic at the time. I looked around and found
reproductive physiology was actually doing empirical science. So that's what I did my dissertation on reproductive
physiology and the
changes aging makes in the
energy metabolism of the reproductive organs. Okay, very good. Okay, for people that are listening from 730 to late p.m.
we take callers live on the air. The number if you live in the area or even if you don't live in the area,
let's just give out the whole number so no matter where you are,
707-923-3911.
So from 730 on callers are invited to call in 707-923-3911.
And Dr. Beat, I love the way that you can describe your educational background in a slightly different manner every month. It's just wonderful. Thank you.
So you said that this very briefly going back to what you said about the developmental biology or reproductive biology.
It was empirical based still so it hadn't been swallowed up by the
machine.
The professor, the main professor in female reproduction,
Arnold Soderwal,
had
been working in the field
way back in the 40s and he was one of the
early people to test the effects of vitamin E on
reproduction.
In the 1930s and 40s it was considered a sex promoting
vitamin or almost a hormone.
And he was one of the people that showed that its effect on increasing fertility
took place by being an anti-estrogen.
The older an animal got,
earlier it became infertile. He found that increasing the dose of vitamin E steadily with aging,
he kept the animals from miscarrying
well into old middle-aged.
And I continued that research and found that
it was partly acting by way of improving the production of
progesterone as well as lowering the effect of estrogen.
And I also remember you telling me about those
flamingos in the African Rift Valley
that don't age reproductively because they have so much CO2
from not only the elevation but from the non-PUFA
algae they're eating.
No one is really sure but I think the high carbon dioxide
environment is very likely a big part of it. Their usual mortality
curve,
it's a
semi plateau
up until middle age and then it crashes and the
mortality rate per year for most organisms
increases rapidly after a certain age. And with flamingos, it seems that
all through a period of their whole lifespan,
the
annual mortality continues at just about the same rate by accidents mainly.
And that they can breed up until they die from an accident, right?
Apparently, yeah.
Wow, very briefly when you were doing your PhD,
what forms of vitamin E did they know of then? I'm not saying it was so many hundreds of years ago,
but you know 40 years ago or whatever,
had they discovered them all? I found a bottle of the very old stuff in the freezer in the lab
in 1968 or so.
It had been there for decades and it was a
very, very viscous
material and a
light amber color.
And I tested it
against
some of the
quinones,
comparing
benzoquinone for example, reacting it
with vitamin E
and
doing a combination
staining experiment.
I got chemical reactions that showed that the
sensitivity of the quinone
reaction was
very vivid
in that old sample and
the newer samples
with so-called pure vitamin E, I haven't been able to see that same reaction
that I got around 1970 using the very old stuff. Is that anything to do with its antioxidant?
No, it was a
really a very different kind of
reaction.
Was it, where did they get that vitamin E from? How did they process it?
That was bought from Sigma Chemical Company.
But it was
fairly typical at the time. It was very highly refined. It was the highest grade available at the time.
But at that time all vitamin E was fairly
brown colored and
very, very thick.
I think
some of the studies suggested that it was a waxy, highly saturated,
long-chain fatty acid
that was part of the
endurance
promoting antioxidant effect, not the
simple tocopherol itself. So it makes a big difference what form of vitamin E they're using to test and
coming up with these results, does that mean that we need to be careful when we're supplementing with vitamin E? Yeah, lots of it now.
Even 10 or 20 years ago, the majority of it was highly diluted with
soybean oil.
Highly unsaturated, exactly what my professor found was
the
antagonistic effect it
protected against the
pro-aging effect of the polyunsaturated fats.
So if your vitamin E is thin and liquid, then it's probably not a good vitamin E. If it's thick and viscous,
then can we assume that that's a better quality? I think so.
All right, we're good. That's a little bit of a digression,
but very interesting nonetheless because I was looking at vitamin E just last month and wanting to get some feedback about
the best source of vitamin E. Very quickly, do you have any,
would you speak to that? What you think is a good, what makes a good quality vitamin E supplement?
I
think the mixture of the
isotopes or the
non-rheumatic
natural
forms
alpha and gamma are
probably
the most important, but I think the mixture as it occurs in nature is much better than any of the synthetic.
DL alpha has been sold for a long time because it's cheap to make
synthetically. Okay, so what about wheat germ oil is one of the main sources for it, right? But you would not advocate that given
it's very full of polyunsaturated fats.
I tried some of it in the 1970s and that caused a choking
sensation when you took just a little bit of it. So you're recommending that you take a mixed tocopherol
supplement of vitamin E and not just an isolated D alpha
tocopherol. Yeah,
in the 1940s
the
anti-estrogen
quality that was identified from the 1930s, an
anti-clotting and anti-estrogen effect
was very clearly identified. But with the rise of the estrogen industry starting in 1940,
that
property, the idea that vitamin E could be very pro fertility,
it was the main fertility vitamin and at the same time purely anti-estrogenic,
really
put a crimp in the
estrogen advertising
idea and they were I think a major factor in creating the
doctrine that
vitamin E's action is as an
antioxidant.
And the
vegetable oil industry at the same time was trying to sell the idea that
seed oils are edible and
in feeding them to animals,
they were finding that animals became sterile
on a high intake of
the various seed oils,
polyunsaturated. Sterile and fat.
Right, didn't they put on weight too? Then they find that farmers could give the animals?
Yeah, but when they had a really high proportion, they became sterile and
brain deteriorated.
Low energy.
The gonads in the brain were the first to deteriorate and
that my professor for example
identified that as
an estrogen
promoting effect that has continued to be confirmed that estrogen
increases the accumulation of polyunsaturated fats in the body and
increases their activity at any one moment and those fats
simultaneously are increasing
the effect of estrogen.
It's a vicious cycle, huh? Yeah, so the anti-estrogen effect
was
identical to the anti-PUFA effect, but both the food, the seed oil industry and the estrogen industry
found it very convenient to
sell the idea that vitamin E is merely an
antioxidant. So from the 1940s on
D-alpha-tocopherol was identified as
how to measure the
value of vitamin E because it was the most antioxidant and so
until just fairly recently the only
component that they measured was the alpha component, but it turns out that the gamma and others have
very distinct more important biological activities including
opposition to estrogen.
Excellent, all right good. Well, I'm glad I'm glad we accidentally went there.
It's a good a good breakdown of vitamin E and it's used for sure. Okay, so you're listening to Ask Your Doctor, KMED,
Garbovill, 91.1 FM from 7.30 until the end of the show at 8 o'clock.
You're invited to call in with questions related or unrelated to this month's continuing subject of
ELF,
extremely low frequency,
electromagnetic frequencies
for healing. We have a bunch of abstracts here that I just want to get through with
very specific known pathologies just to get Dr.
Peat's insight onto the activity of how these frequencies could have such a profound effect.
I know we've mentioned Reif therapy in the past and
for want of not understanding it as well as I'd like to, I certainly want to believe Reif is a very
realistic approach.
They certainly wanted to put the man in prison and take away all of his research material
back when Raymond Reif was doing his research.
So probably sounds like something they wanted to keep covered up, not to get too conspiracy theorists about it.
Anyway, the number is 707 923 3911.
That's 707 923 3911. Dr. Raymond Peat's joining us live on the air.
So Dr. Peat, I just wanted to cover quickly. I don't want you
I don't want you getting bored with any of the subject matter.
Sometimes I feel that it we kind of drudge through some of the subjects you're not that interested in perhaps, but
without going too far in that direction, I looked at some articles last month for
extremely low frequency electromagnetic
spectrum and these electromagnetic fields on various pathologies and we talked about the breast cancer one that showed definite conclusive
positive benefits on breast cancer.
I saw another one on and it surprised me here because I
know you've always mentioned high altitude being very good for people and the increased CO2 and being part of a longevity
formulation if you like, high altitude reducing stress, improving CO2 and improving longevity.
But this was a test that was done on rats
and they were I guess probably because the ulcers were
simulated. They weren't actually, I don't know that I think they were put in a hyperbaric chamber at
you know different partial pressure of oxygen to simulate higher altitude, but it was a high altitude stress ulcer healing
in rats. So they gave these rats
ulcers and they said that basically it was a hypoxia that was a
part and parcel the reason they got these ulcers and that it was fairly prevalent among people
high altitude. But do you have that do you have any idea first I guess about
high altitude and ulcers, ulcer formation? In that particular experiment they were
using restraint stress to produce the ulcers and it happened to be combined with high altitude.
So I don't think
anything can
be inferred from that study for humans. So the stress was that they were restraining the rats?
Yeah, if you're being suspended by your tail at high altitude.
It doesn't matter what altitude you're gonna be stressed out. Yeah.
Okay, well anyway, all right, I just wanted to bring it out. They said that the low frequency
pulse electromagnetic fields
could penetrate the stomach tissue and they said they relieve the symptoms of the
stomach ulcer and promote the regeneration of disturbed tissues and they said that there was a clinical potential for this therapy for ulcer treatment.
Okay, well, maybe not dwell on that one too much and how about
this other study here was called it's entitled the neuroprotective effects of low frequency pulse electromagnetic fields in
ischemic stroke.
And this again, I think is probably part and parcel of reperfusion or reducing the
inflammatory sequelae that happens as a result of reperfusion after an ischemic event.
I think people I think about people that have heart attacks or coronary
artery occlusion and heart attacks and benefiting from using hawthorn extract as a normal medicine and definitely
has shown to reduce the ischemic the size of the ischemic tissue post
event and
promote healing.
They mentioned some of the
inflammatory cytokines that are reduced by the treatment and I think
behind those particular
neuroprotective changes, I think there's likely to be an increase of
some of the basic
defensive factors such as heat shock protein.
Any kind of stress will bring on these
stabilizing proteins and I suspect that those are behind the various
reductions of the inflammatory
mediators.
Another
acute stress
induced
protective factor is
hypoxia
induced factor that tends to come up at the same time as the heat shock proteins and these
helps nerve cells, for example, to get through intense stress which could be
glucose deprivation or oxygen deprivation either one.
Right, because I have to be a little careful here when I
look at these things and and and maybe take them out of context, but it's a little bit like inflammation, you know,
it's not all bad. Inflammation is necessary to achieve certain end results,
but obviously out of control inflammation is where we discuss inflammation as being negative.
Okay, all right, let's see here the other article I'm looking at
I think that's actually we can probably skip this one. This is part and parcel of
hypoxia induced neuronal cell death.
They've mentioned here that there was various
signal
molecules that were involved in inflammation and various proteins that were secreted in response to inflammation and that this
pulse electromagnetic
fields could mitigate the effects of this. I think I'm probably more interested in how the mechanism by which
sound waves and this is again, it kind of harks back to Rife therapy and
disrupting
cancer cells or indeed bacteria that Rife was experimenting with and how
the frequency
and I think we have to make analogies here to things like the Clifton suspension bridge
swaying in the wind because of the harmonics that were produced by the wind blowing through the cabling and how that
frequency and that resonance became very disruptive and destructive and
involved of bridge failing, but how these electromagnetic fields
generate this disruptive
event to
become healing, you know, in terms of inflammation and how that actually works.
Do you have any insight into how that may actually, you know, may actually
be physically provable? I mean, I didn't really look at articles in terms of actually outlining the science of it.
Just I was just very excited to see articles referring to people's disease
and especially bone treatment, bone remodeling. It was very conclusive. But how they
how this activity could actually be a physical event?
The research of Robert Becker
in
biological electrical
activity, he found that
organisms are
responsive to
extremely weak
electromagnetic signals of pulsations in the earth's
electromagnetic field and
older research
in the 40s and 50s, we're finding that all sorts of organisms
govern their metabolic rate
by
changes picked up from the electromagnetic field.
Currently, the doctrine is that it's simply the light and dark
changes that are
cuing in
the expression of certain genes appropriate for night or daytime.
But in this older research, they would put the organism in sealed chambers out of sight
of the outside changes of night and day and some of the
changes persisted even in
holes in the ground, mine shafts and
plants, for example, that folded their petals
during the night.
Some of these plants were taken down and they
could still detect the changes of day and night until they were 60 feet below the surface.
There are some very penetrating electromagnetic fields that are
crucially important for the cycles of plants and
the
current dogma that it's nothing but daylight and nighttime are
really trying to
cover up that extreme sensitivity to weak fields and how important it
is that we're being
bombarded with polluting
electrical rhythms.
I'm going to ask you a little bit, I've got one or two more abstracts I quickly want to look at, but I wanted to
bring up the subject again, probably not for too long, but just to bring it up again the whole 5G rollout of wireless internet
that's taking over Europe and it's obviously mounting opposition to it, but we'll go there in a little bit.
I had another article here and it caught my eye. It was for the treatment of Alzheimer's
and they were saying, and actually we go a little bit more specific here, and they were using
5 Hertz and
90 minute cycles of 5 Hertz and they said that there was a definite improvement in cognitive
ability. So for those Alzheimer's patients that are definitely declining cognitively, they saw a definite improvement
using that and they said during the abstract here, they gave a little bit more information, they were talking about
tissue regeneration
because of the ability to
stimulate cell proliferation and immune functions
via the specific heat shock protein
family of heat shock proteins and how that
I guess that probably plays into the
neurofibrillary tangles and those kind of proteins that get deranged in Alzheimer's.
So that was quite interesting.
And then the last thing I wanted to cover
was a...
Actually, did you want to say? No, go ahead. Yeah. Okay. Well this next one again is just another article here
about
bacterial infections that antibiotics are not able to treat anymore. So kind of a drug resistant bacteria type scenario
where they've used
electromagnetic fields and
basically blocked things like tumor necrosis factor and transcription factor kappa beta and
they have basically
been able to prevent the previously untreatable bacterial infection from getting out of control and
have actually been able to slow it down to a point where they're saying that this
continuous exposure to pulse electromagnetic field at 5 Hertz
demonstrated significant changes in the down regulation of all those inflammatory cytokines that would be part and parcel of breaking down the cell
damaging the tissues and all the sequelae that
inflammation brings with it and all the damage that it brings with it. So that's pretty pretty cool.
So Dr. Peat, would you
recommend a practical approach to using these ELF and various post EMF
treatments? I don't think there's been enough research.
It's clear that these
acute treatments can stimulate
increased blood circulation
and these defensive heat shock protein and hypoxia induced factor which are defensive.
The subtler things, long-range
development, of course, I
don't think there's enough information yet.
And there's very little interest in following up research that was done
40 or 50 years ago on sounds for example.
The
dogma says that
ordinary
speaking
frequency sound waves at that intensity
couldn't possibly be
interacting with cell chemistry, but several experiments have demonstrated that in fact just
moderate
volume
music or speech
vibrations
affect the activity of
muscle enzymes. ATPase, for example, was one that was tested and
the H440 cycles
was found to
distinctly
activate that particular enzyme. Each enzyme
probably has its own
responsive frequency, but
that was contrary to
standard
biochemical cell function and so it was totally neglected.
ATP was found to
respond
to
musical frequencies
and that's another
violation of standard
physical chemical. So we're supposed to speak to each other and hear voices
and listen to music.
And speak kind words rather than shouting and screaming.
I know, have they done
tests on the various
pitch of the voice?
Yeah, the pitch affects enzyme activity.
Yeah, I can believe it completely without having to see any proof. It's just a concept of...
What is hearing a baby cry? Well, yeah, that and...
put anyone on edge. Yeah, or people that get in road traffic, you know,
situations where they're just being loud and obnoxious or you know all of that.
I can't see that as being as being creative or healing in any way. It's always seen as being inflammatory and destructive.
It's all part of that screaming and shouting cycle. Okay, so let's hold it there a second.
You're listening to Ask Your ObDoctor, KMED Galbraithville 91.1 FM.
From now until 8 o'clock you're invited to call in with questions related or unrelated to this month's subject.
The closing subject here of
electromagnetic fields and
healing for different
Hertz
frequencies and different times. It's all out there on the internet. If you want to look at it folks, it's pretty exciting stuff.
And there's 2019 and 2020 publications in
I'll say quote-unquote respected medical journals, but they are
on PubMed and you can see the various journals that have printed out the or put these
abstracts out there for peer review and they've actually shown up as articles. So the number here is 707-923-3911.
Dr. Raymond Peat joining us and we do have two callers on
on the line. So let's take this first caller. Caller, you're on the air. Where are you from? What's your question?
Hello, is this me? Yeah, you're on the air. What's your question and where are you from, caller?
I'm calling from Gartherville
and I'd love the conversation. I'm wondering where it's going in general as far as how much
individuals need to deal with and how much is actually medically relevant.
I've been dealing with a chronic problem for a while that
pushes me to the my limit of
of
mental ability
because of past traumatic brain injury.
So
I wonder what Dr. Peat has to say about
organic damage
to one's brain as far as any of this new research goes.
Dr. Peat, are you able to hear that clearly? I'm not getting it too clear here, but I got the general idea about
how much repair happens to organic brain damage.
Well, I know what I think he was asking is
this gentleman has organic brain damage and he's asking how
much relevance
brain damage.
Well, I know what I think he was asking is...
Sorry, we're having a lot of feedback from the caller. The listener needs to turn his radio down when he speaks to us.
Okay, did you hear that? Listen, if you could...
I unfortunately couldn't hear the answer otherwise, so I had to get close to my radio. Okay.
Okay, so just one small caller. You are suffering with traumatic brain injury. Is that correct?
And
you sound so distant. I'm sorry. I don't know what's... I hear you. Yeah, I'm not too sure either.
Okay, but what I think he's asking is
is any of this EMF or ELF
frequencies
applicable to brain damage? Dr. Peat, he wanted to know if you thought that that could help his brain damage.
I think
the random
the white noise... I'm hearing all of you now. I'm nowhere near my radio. What I was
possibly asking is
what advice would you have for somebody who
realizes that
there is damage?
Hello?
I think
when the brain
has
any
inefficiency
from whatever cause, it's more susceptible
to
interference from being around a broadcast station, for example.
The healthier the brain is, the higher its threshold is to that kind of
pollution.
And
the
healing influence of the natural hormones
proceeds at any age and
in any starting condition.
In traumatic brain injury, for example, they found that
progesterone and vitamin D
are both of them extremely helpful for
facilitating
repair, keeping down
the
inflammatory processes
that would
amount to something like a scar formation rather than a creation of new functioning nerve circuits.
If I might interject just because I'm only
barely understanding half of this because of the weird connection,
I'm nowhere near my radio, but he seems to be saying something about
progesterone and vitamin D
as being helpful for
brain function. Yeah, that's correct. If you look online, you'll find lots of articles
published by
credible universities and scientists engaged in
traumatic brain injury as a subject specifically mentioning progesterone being very supportive and very
anti-inflammatory.
So as a layman's question,
where do you get
progesterone? Is that
something that would be prescribed or is that something that one could find on their own or? You can find vitamin D and
progesterone online.
What I heard was you can find vitamin D and progesterone online.
Correct. You can find both of those in a good health food store too. As a supplement. Yeah, there's nothing restricted about them.
And there might be three or four doctors in the country who are willing to prescribe those things,
but it isn't necessary to have a prescription for them.
And also, Dr. Peat, where you recommend...
Where does the, if I might ask, where does the progesterone come from?
It's usually from wild yam.
It's synthesized from wild yam as a starting material.
It's the same molecule
that your brain
manufactures.
The brain has the highest concentration of any tissue in the body of progesterone.
It's an essential brain
stabilizing molecule.
Okay, I think we should wrap this one up and move on to the next caller who's waiting.
I appreciate your questions and hopefully you were able to hear
what we were trying to say. But next caller, caller you're on the air. Where are you from? What's your question?
Are you there, caller?
I see the lights are flashing. Well, they are, first of all. But my main question is to all three of you.
What do you, and I'll take my answer off the air.
What do you know, if anything, about Dr. Hilda Clark's machine? I was
thinking about that. Right, in terms of
Rife.
I'm sorry, we're having a lot of feedback here. I think Hilda Clark's
apparatus was a simple direct current
device, which is
in Robert Beckford's research, he found that he could
promote and normalize,
promote nerve regeneration,
and
establish normal function when nerves had been cut.
But the use that Hilda Clark
made of her direct current device,
I don't think there was any research supporting the things she claimed for it.
There we go.
Okay, let's take this next caller. Caller, you're on the air. Where are you from? What's your question?
Hi, yes, I'm calling from Washington, Tacoma region, and I'm calling on behalf of my husband since he wasn't able to call in due to
work.
He works in the medical field and was recently denied a influenza vaccination
Okay, for some reason we're hearing the engineer talking to
He works in the medical field and he was recently denied an influenza vaccination exemption request
by his hospital's immunization exemption appeals committee,
despite the hospital having a written policy that allows employees with strongly held personal beliefs against vaccination
to simply wear a mask instead of receiving the flu shot.
My question to Ray P is since these health care workers have compulsory annual flu vaccination with toxic adjuvants,
are there any changes that you would recommend to such people to their diet
or supplementation regimen around the time of vaccination in order to mitigate the effects of adjuvants on systemic inflammation?
For example, is it safe or effective to increase aspirin intake in order to minimize cytokine production?
Yeah, interesting. So good, good question. We were going to cover adjuvants specifically in Dr. Peat's polio article,
but Dr. Peat, would you speak to that? Did you hear that clearly?
Yeah, and the same things that will protect you against
any injury from radiation to
trauma or bacterial
toxins,
they can be used to protect against the aluminum particulate matter and the other
random proteins that are contaminating
vaccines.
Aspirin is an important one.
Progesterone and the
youth-associated steroids, pregnenolone and DHEA and progesterone in particular,
are protective against
the whole
range of inflammatory processes.
Okay, I mean, what kind of doses would you recommend on aspirin? Like a couple grams a day?
Then you'd want to be taking vitamin K with that?
Or would you think a low dose would be sufficient?
I think
the day or two before
and the following vaccination, I think
probably
500 milligrams per day would be good.
And that would require some
vitamin K as well? Vitamin K2? Yeah, vitamin K is another generally protective factor.
Calcium, sodium, magnesium,
these have a basic
anti-inflammatory function when you get them through good
food.
Okay, so did that address your question, ma'am?
It definitely did. Thank you for your time, Dr. Rapi. Yeah, you're welcome. Thanks for calling.
Okay, so those people listening, this is Ask Your Ob Doctor on KMED Galbraith Hall,
91.1 FM. From now until the end of the show at 8 o'clock, you're invited to call in and that number is
707-923-3911.
Once again, 707-923-3911.
We do have another caller here lined up. So let's take this next caller call away from, what's your question?
Hi, I'm in New Harris and this is Kim.
I wanted to share that there is a site online, Dr. Pollock,
pawlua.com.
Can you hear me? Yep, I can hear you, Dr. Pollock, you said, yeah.
The engineer is talking to someone now and apparently it's cutting into you. So I don't know what's happening.
Yeah, I can hear you again. So just say that again.
Hello?
Yes, Kim, we can hear you now. The engineer is not speaking so we can hear you.
Okay, it's interesting. I can't really hear you guys, but I wanted to tell you Dr. Pollock.com
p-a-w-l-u-c-l-u-k Pollock.
He has done extensive research on pulse electromagnetic fields
and his latest
blog
talks about
traumatic brain injury. It was just posted February 10th, 2020. Good. You can sign up for his article
at drpollock.com.
Well, good, well, thank you for sharing that. It's very timely.
Hopefully the first caller can go online and look up Dr. Pollock.
Okay, so for all of those of you listening, I'm very sorry about the trouble with feedback and not hearing us properly.
I know it has been a question in the past and some people have been pretty vociferous about it.
Okay, so let's take this next caller. Caller you're on the airway from and what's your question?
Hello, how are you guys?
Doing good. How are you? What's your question away from?
Hello?
Hello caller we can hear you.
How are you folks doing?
Good. What's your question?
I have a question. First, I just want to say have you guys ever heard of Dharmasingh Kultham D?
No.
He has, I can't really hear you, but he has a book called Food is Medicine
which I haven't read yet and I've read a little bit as Meditation as Medicine.
Hello?
Hi, we can still hear you.
Okay.
So what's your question?
Are you talking to me? Yeah, we heard part of your...
Okay. Yeah, somebody just told me I was going to be next.
The Dharmasingh Kultham D, he talks about how when you meditate and your tongue hits the roof of your mouth,
it releases amino acids
to your brain and helps rebuild your cells or releases amino acids from your brain.
And
it's been real helpful for me for healing
bone injuries. But the question I have is how does
spices,
how do spices help our digestive system? Like do they help our cells
take in nutrients and stuff like that? I could take my answer off the line. Thank you.
Okay, I think Dr. Peat you want to answer that probably with a
lots of spices or allergenic type response, but what do you think about spices and nutrient uptake?
You know the idea that
anything stimulating your appetite,
your nerves, your brain
is in control of your digestive system.
That was
Pavlov's
basic research
seeing how the brain
manages the whole digestive process.
And
if you have negative thoughts, anxiety, you'll have digestive problems.
The spices that stimulate
salivation, for example, will stimulate secretion in your stomach and small intestine.
And
make everything
digest
optimally.
But some spices
happen to be allergenic for some people. So
you have to be cautious. Well, you have to experiment and find out. And also just like chili or capsicum,
that increases blood flow so that it can improve digestion.
Okay, so but in general, the caller was asking about spices as aids to nutrient absorption. And I think
what you've mentioned about people that have malabsorption syndrome, for example, is when they're not actually producing enough bile from the liver or
they're not stimulated to release, you know, pepsin or any of these other digestive enzymes. There are certainly
digestive enzymes that can work, but obviously there's plenty of herbs that do stimulate
secretion of salivary enzymes as well as digestive enzymes and increase hydrochloric acid.
And that is all part and parcel of nutrient absorption. And a lot of these would be termed
spices. So things that would be
aperitifs,
things like cinnamon,
ginger,
cloves.
These are definite spices, but I also recognize that there are people that are definitely
sensitive to those and they can cause other symptoms. Well, bitter herbs are very useful at increasing the digestion,
the digestive enzymes and increasing absorption of nutrients and increasing stomach acid. And of course people that are low thyroid
will have a decrease in all of the
enzymes and the
digestive secretions needed for
absorbing nutrition. The bitters
work on multiple levels, stimulating your nerves,
and some of them
actually improve
mitochondrial energy production.
Some of them have systemic,
sedative and stabilizing effects.
They can be very important to your general health. Yeah, good. Things like ginseng, wormwood,
any of the... We've started giving our daughter a century. Yes, which is a little bitter. It's a little clover. Yeah.
All right, excellent. There is one more caller. Let's take this next caller. Caller, you're on the air. Where are you from?
What's your question?
Yeah, my question relates to the topic of the day.
Dr. Peat, were you referring in your earlier discussion on energy to scaler energy,
which ultimately can be...
It doesn't really degrade. It's been around since I guess Tesla
developed it.
Essentially also known as zero point energy and the health benefits, I guess,
as I understand it, in a nutshell, are that it
enables the cells to operate at the appropriate frequencies, which I guess are in the 70 to 90 millivolt range.
Is that what you were referring to earlier?
No, no. Earlier we were... I'm sorry. I'm asking Dr. Peat.
Oh, well, the stabilizing hormones
and the
nutrients and physical factors of thyroid hormone, progesterone, pregnenolone,
carbon dioxide, for example, all
tend to
stabilize around the
70 to 90 millivolt
resting potential.
But the
high energy state
really is a quiescent state, so the voltage is
not
active. It's a quiescent.
My second question...
My other question relates to Dr. Ling, I guess, who died last year. I heard you speaking about him earlier.
I guess his AIH
hypothesis...
Okay, yeah, go ahead. I'm sorry.
Hello, can you hear me?
Up to Ling's
association induction hypothesis.
Yeah, yeah, sorry. So essentially like a red blood cell has 300 million of these NPUs, so
within one red blood cell. So
essentially, are we talking about health that must be
at some point analyzed not at the cellular level, but at the NPU level?
No, no. The cell
in Ling's view is
a unified phase
which
doesn't have the
properties of a random solution, but a single unified functional
sort of a personality
that goes through
basic changes
that organize its function.
Where did we get that?
All right, I think we've got some real problems here. Let's just call this good for the evening. It's five to eight.
I've got a quick question. I wanted to ask Dr. Peat.
Dr. Peat, I had somebody send an email in who was concerned
with the fact that most cattle,
most milk dairy cattle
are kept in a permanently pregnant state and he was wondering
what you thought perhaps is the potential estrogen load of milk.
I don't know if it's that relevant, but what do you think about milk and
cows that are constantly in estrus?
There is an
anti-milk lobby that
makes a lot of
publicity and that's one of their current ploys
to direct people away from milk. But if you look at the
consumption of milk
over the last 50 years,
there's a tremendous decrease even in children.
More and more they're
shifting to so-called
vegetable-based
milk substitutes.
And during this time
looking at the population
you see a tremendous increase in premature puberty in girls
and a great increase in gynecomastia, the development of breasts in boys and men.
As the milk consumption decreases,
estrogenicity...
And the cows aren't kept in constant pregnancy because I have a dairy farmer friend.
He's saying that basically they're pregnant, they're made pregnant,
they deliver the cow, a baby calf, and then obviously they're producing the milk, but then they're
automatically made pregnant again essentially.
No, they get a drying off period.
One of the reasons milk tends to have an overall
protective effect against estrogen
is that the estrogens that are in milk are in a
detoxified form. Estrone sulfate, for example,
is the least harmless form of estrogen.
Not at all comparable to the
estrogens that are in the soy milk substitute. Right, exactly.
Okay, well, let's hold it there Dr. Peat because we've only got a minute and a half before the top of the hour.
Thank you very much for joining us again. I'm sorry about the
the difficulty with the engineering and the sound and the feedback and everything else. So
for those people who've tuned in and want to know more about Dr. Peat, he can be reached at
www.raypeat.com
He's got lots of articles fully referenced about many different pathologies, most of which people
are going to look, they will find certainly
information relevant to what they're searching for. And then also he's written some books and
obviously he's lectured fairly widely, but
information is quite hard to find out about Dr. Peat because I think he's
I think he ends up doing a lot of his own research and doesn't really
doesn't really get around like he used to. But anyway, thanks so much for joining us Dr. Peat.
And for those people who want to find out any more about us,
our business web address is westernbotanicalmedicine.com.
My wife and I both produce medicinal herb extracts. We're GMP
registered and inspected and audited and all that good stuff. And certified organic. Certified organic.
Yeah, I've been doing it over 20 years too. So for those people who've listened to the show and
called in, thanks for your questions. Until March of next,
Thursday, Friday of next month in March,
good night. Good night. Thank you for listening.